Add privacy considerations (#59)
tls-attestation/draft-tls-attestation: draft-fossati-tls-attestation.md

TBD.

> # Privacy Considerations {#priv-cons}

Reviewer: To ground this section in more traditional privacy considerations, maybe add an initial sentence:

> Within this section, we assume that the Attester is a TLS client, which in turn represents an individual person. We are concerned about leakage of unnecessary information about that person such as correlation of different connections initiated by him or her.

> In background-check mode, the Verifier has access to detailed information about the Attester TLS peer's TCB through Evidence.

Reviewer 2: I find the "TLS peer" suffix somewhat distracting, and I'm not sure if it's strictly needed since it should be fairly clear from the context that the attester and RP are the TLS peers. How strongly do you feel about keeping it in?

> In background-check mode, the Verifier has access to detailed information about the Attester TLS peer's TCB through Evidence.

Author: ```suggestion
In background-check mode, the Verifier has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB through Evidence.
```

> In background-check mode, the Verifier has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB through Evidence.
> The Verifier also knows the exact time and the party with whom the secure channel establishment is attempted (i.e., the RP).

Author: ```suggestion
In background-check mode, the Verifier not only has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB through Evidence, but it also knows the exact time and the party with whom the secure channel establishment is attempted (i.e., the RP).
```

The privacy implications are similar to online OCSP {{-ocsp}}.

> Although the Verifier is trusted by the RP, the same may not apply to the Attester.

Reviewer: The meaning of the word "trusted" here is too broad. The RP is trusted to provide some services to the client, but not necessarily trusted with the client's private information. Obviously the trust situation with the Verifier is different.

> Although the Verifier is trusted by the RP TLS peer, the same may not apply to the Attester TLS peer.

Author: ```suggestion
Although the Verifier is trusted by the RP, the same may not apply to the Attester.
```

Some ways to address this include:

> * Redacting privacy-sensitive evidence claims,

Reviewer: Client-side redaction? Server-side?

* Using selective disclosure (e.g., SD-JWT {{-sd-jwt}} with EAT {{-rats-eat}}),
* Co-locating the Verifier role with the RP,
* Utilizing privacy-preserving attestation schemes (e.g., DAA {{-rats-daa}}), or
* Utilizing Attesters manufactured with group identities (e.g., {{FIDO-REQS}}).

> Note that the equivalent of OCSP "stapling" involves using a passport topology where the Verifier's involvement is unrelated to the TLS session.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand this sentence. Is this because of caching? Even if there's caching of attestation results, the RP (not the Verifier!) can still use attestation-related information to correlate multiple requests from the same client, even if e.g. the client is behind a proxy.

Author: > I'm not sure I understand this sentence.

I am just making the analogy between a stapled OCSP response and an attestation result used as a passport.

> the RP (not the Verifier!) can still use attestation-related information to correlate multiple requests from the same client, even if e.g. the client is behind a proxy.

The RP is a "natural" correlator.  I don't think there's anything we can do about that.

Reviewer: I think with DAA/EPID the value prop is that (optionally) the Attester can remain anonymous to the RP (per the [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct_Anonymous_Attestation) text, to the Verifier, but I think Verifier and RP are collocated).

Reviewer: > Do you have any text you'd like to suggest? If not, I can give it a try.

TBH,, I don't understand it well enough to come up with good text.

Author: OK, for now I have added this simple note: [cdd3b86](https://github.com/tls-attestation/draft-tls-attestation/pull/59/commits/cdd3b86f63c242a29dd4fd8323aaf02a4f8d1d7e)

Author: @yaronf please check if [cdd3b86](https://github.com/tls-attestation/draft-tls-attestation/pull/59/commits/cdd3b86f63c242a29dd4fd8323aaf02a4f8d1d7e) addresses your concern.

TBD.

# Privacy Considerations {#priv-cons}

In this section, we are assuming that the Attester is a TLS client, representing an individual person.

> We are concerned about the potential leakage of unnecessary information about that person, such as the correlation of different connections initiated by them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are concerned about the potential leakage of privacy sensitive information about that person, such as the correlation of different connections initiated by them.
```

Author: cool, done in [c749575](https://github.com/tls-attestation/draft-tls-attestation/pull/59/commits/c7495751974e1b765fbc4f3a2aae832d42a27744)

In background-check mode, the Verifier not only has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB through Evidence, but it also knows the exact time and the party with whom the secure channel establishment is attempted (i.e., the RP).
The privacy implications are similar to online OCSP {{-ocsp}}.

> While the RP may trust the Verifier not to disclose any information it receives, the same cannot be assumed for the Attester, which generally has no prior relationship with the Verifier.

Reviewer 3: The existing text on line 1085, does not make it clear `any information it receives` pertains to all the information or RP specific information, hence suggested a minor clarification. Rest all changes look good!

> While the RP may trust the Verifier not to disclose any information it receives, the same cannot be assumed for the Attester, which generally has no prior relationship with the Verifier.

Author: The point here is that the fact that the RP trusts the verifier not to divulge *any* information it passes on to it (including the attester's evidence), does not automatically imply the same is true for the attester.

Some ways to address this include:

* Client-side redaction of privacy-sensitive evidence claims,
* Using selective disclosure (e.g., SD-JWT {{-sd-jwt}} with EAT {{-rats-eat}}),
* Co-locating the Verifier role with the RP,
* Utilizing privacy-preserving attestation schemes (e.g., DAA {{-rats-daa}}), or
* Utilizing Attesters manufactured with group identities (e.g., {{FIDO-REQS}}).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The latter two also have the property of hiding the peer's identity from the RP.

```

TBD.

# Privacy Considerations {#priv-cons}

In this section, we are assuming that the Attester is a TLS client, representing an individual person.
We are concerned about the potential leakage of privacy sensitive information about that person, such as the correlation of different connections initiated by them.

In background-check mode, the Verifier not only has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB through Evidence, but it also knows the exact time and the party with whom the secure channel establishment is attempted (i.e., the RP).
The privacy implications are similar to online OCSP {{-ocsp}}.
While the RP may trust the Verifier not to disclose any information it receives, the same cannot be assumed for the Attester, which generally has no prior relationship with the Verifier.
Some ways to address this include:

> * Client-side redaction of privacy-sensitive evidence claims,

Reviewer 2: What does "client-side" mean here?

Author: I think it really means
```suggestion
* Attester-side redaction of privacy-sensitive evidence claims,
```

In background-check mode, the Verifier not only has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB through Evidence, but it also knows the exact time and the party with whom the secure channel establishment is attempted (i.e., the RP).
The privacy implications are similar to online OCSP {{-ocsp}}.
While the RP may trust the Verifier not to disclose any information it receives, the same cannot be assumed for the Attester, which generally has no prior relationship with the Verifier.
Some ways to address this include:

* Client-side redaction of privacy-sensitive evidence claims,
* Using selective disclosure (e.g., SD-JWT {{-sd-jwt}} with EAT {{-rats-eat}}),
* Co-locating the Verifier role with the RP,
* Utilizing privacy-preserving attestation schemes (e.g., DAA {{-rats-daa}}), or
* Utilizing Attesters manufactured with group identities (e.g., {{FIDO-REQS}}).

The latter two also have the property of hiding the peer's identity from the RP.

Note that the equivalent of OCSP "stapling" involves using a passport topology where the Verifier's involvement is unrelated to the TLS session.

> Due to the inherent asymmetry of the TLS protocol, if the Attester acts as the TLS server, a malicious TLS client could potentially retrieve sensitive information from attestation evidence and then terminate the connection before disclosing any information to the peer.

Reviewer 3: I am not clear about the context of the following text:
`before disclosing any information to the peer`.

In my view the para should terminate at `then terminate the connection`

Reviewer 2: That sounds a bit better, but I'm ok with the current form as well.

Author: > I am not clear about the context of the following text: `before disclosing any information to the peer`.
> 
> In my view the para should terminate at `then terminate the connection`

why would you drop the _"[b]efore ... peer"_ ?

Reviewer 3: Did you mean before disclosing its own identity to the Attester?

Reviewer 3: or someone else?

Author: > Did you mean before disclosing its own identity to the Attester?
> or someone else?

I don't understand the question.  There are only two peers in a TLS exchange.

Reviewer 3: I think the ambiguity stems from the term `any information`.

If I understand correctly, you intended to state,:
`sensitive information from attestation evidence and then terminate the connection before disclosing its identity to the peer`

Author: It's identity in a wider sense, including any hardware/software info that may come from attestation if the peer requested it in SH.

Reviewer 2: Can I make a suggestion? I think the issue isn't when (or even whether) the client drops the connection, it could continue the handshake and just give bogus credentials.. So we can sidestep the client's actions.

```suggestion
Due to the inherent asymmetry of the TLS protocol, if the Attester acts as the TLS server, a malicious TLS client could potentially retrieve sensitive information from attestation evidence without its trustworthiness first being established by the attester.
```

Reviewer 2: True, good catch!

# Privacy Considerations {#priv-cons}

> In this section, we are assuming that the Attester is a TLS client, representing an individual person.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section, we are assuming that the Attester is a TLS client, representing an individual entity.
```

Author: One of the main points of Yaron's suggestion was to make it clear that privacy is about people.  Conversely, "entity" can be anything.

Author: Because it's persons that care about their privacy, things are just things ;-)

> We are concerned about the potential leakage of unnecessary information about that person, such as the correlation of different connections initiated by them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We are concerned about the potential leakage of unnecessary information about that entity, such as the correlation of different connections initiated by them.
```

Author: ditto

> 

Reviewer 3: I think, the statement on line 1083, is regardless of what mode the Attestation is carried out. Whether in BG Check or PP Model, the Verifier has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB. 

Shall we not just remove which Mode we are operating in and just state that `Verifier gets detailed information`

Hence the following solutions apply to preserve anonymity..?

Author: > I think, the statement on line 1083, is regardless of what mode the Attestation is carried out. Whether in BG Check or PP Model, the Verifier has access to detailed information about the Attester's TCB.
> Shall we not just remove which Mode we are operating in and just state that `Verifier gets detailed information`
> 
> Hence the following solutions apply to preserve anonymity..?

No, the privacy problem we are trying to highlight here is the potential for correlating the TLS peers' identities and the time of the secure channel establishment by the Verifier.
